Docs: Enhancements to OIDC introduction in Security docs (#27176)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security.adoc

=== OpenID Connect

> OpenID Connect (OIDC) is an open authentication protocol that enables client applications to verify the identity of a user when that user tries to connect to a secure server, such as HTTPS.

Reviewer: I'd like to reword it a bit, and not really involve OAuth2.0 compatibility at this early stage, will try next week :-)

> OpenID Connect (OIDC) is an open authentication protocol that enables client applications to verify the identity of a user when that user tries to connect to a secure server, such as HTTPS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenID Connect (OIDC) is an identity layer on top of the OAuth 2.0 protocol. It enables client applications to verify the identity of the user based on the authentication performed by the OIDC provider, as well as to obtain the basic information about the user.
```

Reviewer: @sheilamjones I propose to reword similarly to how it is structured in the spec: https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html

> OIDC uses authorization and authentication mechanisms on OAuth 2.0 compliant authorization servers and builds identities that uniquely identify users.

Reviewer: @sheilamjones Lets remove this sentence since the above suggestion should be sufficient

> In Quarkus, the OIDC extension, `quarkus-oidc`, provides a reactive, interoperable, multitenant-enabled OIDC adapter that supports `Bearer Token` and `Authorization Code Flow` authentication mechanisms.

Reviewer: @sheilamjones Is it possible to apply this suggestion ? If you feel "In Quarkus, the OIDC extension, `quarkus-oidc`" is better worded then it is fine

> The `Bearer Token` mechanism extracts the token from the HTTP `Authorization` header. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Bearer Token` mechanism extracts the access token from the HTTP `Authorization` header.

```

> The `Authorization Code Flow` mechanism uses OIDC authorization code flow, which redirects you to an identity provider (IDP) to authenticate the identity of a user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Authorization Code Flow` mechanism uses OIDC authorization code flow, which redirects the user to an OpenID Connect provider to authenticate the identity of this user.
```

> Next, after you are redirected back to Quarkus, the mechanism completes the authentication process by exchanging the provided code grant for ID, access, and refresh tokens.

Reviewer: This is a good introducstion to the code flow, nice work, but now adding a diagramm vsualizing it would be great :-).
Please note, in the diagramm, instead of listing the added like `/authorization` please say `Authorization Endpoint`, and instead of `/token` - `Token Endpoint`

Reviewer: I've also simplified a bit `The `Authorization Code Flow` mechanism uses OIDC authorization code flow, which redirects` as `The `Authorization Code Flow` mechanism redirects`

You can verify ID and access `JWT` tokens by using the refreshable `JWK` key set, but both JWT and opaque (binary) tokens can be introspected remotely.

[NOTE]
====
With the Quarkus OIDC extension, both `Bearer` and `Authorization Code Flow` authentication mechanisms use <<smallrye-jwt, SmallRye JWT>> to represent JWT tokens as Microprofile JWT `org.eclipse.microprofile.jwt.JsonWebToken`. 
====

For information about `Bearer Token` authentication mechanism, see the xref:security-openid-connect.adoc[Using OpenID Connect to Protect Service Applications].

For information about `Authorization Code Flow` authentication mechanism, see xref:security-openid-connect-web-authentication.adoc[Using OpenID Connect to Protect Web Application].

For information about multiple tenants that can support `Bearer` or `Authorization Code Flow` authentication mechanism, see xref:security-openid-connect-multitenancy.adoc[Using OpenID Connect Multi-Tenancy].

[NOTE]
====

> If you want to enable the Quarkus OIDC extension at runtime, you set `quarkus.oidc.tenant-enabled=false` at build time then re-enable it at runtime by using a system property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to enable the Quarkus OIDC extension at runtime, set `quarkus.oidc.tenant-enabled=false` at build time then re-enable it at runtime by using a system property.
```

> If you want to enable the Quarkus OIDC extension at runtime, you set `quarkus.oidc.tenant-enabled=false` at build time then re-enable it at runtime by using a system property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to enable the Quarkus OIDC extension at runtime, set `quarkus.oidc.tenant-enabled=false` at build time and then re-enable it at runtime by using a system property.
```

For more information about managing the individual tenant configurations in multitenant OIDC deployments, see xref:security-openid-connect-multitenancy.adoc#disable-tenant[Disabling Tenant Configurations].
====

> If you use keycloak and bearer tokens, see the xref:security-keycloak-authorization.adoc[Using Keycloak to Centralize Authorization] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Keycloak and bearer tokens, see the xref:security-keycloak-authorization.adoc[Using Keycloak to Centralize Authorization] guide.
```

[NOTE]
====

> If you need to configure keycloak programmatically, then consider using https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_development/#admin-rest-api[Keycloak Admin REST API] with the help of the `quarkus-keycloak-admin-client` or `quarkus-keycloak-admin-client-reactive` (if the application uses the `quarkus-rest-client-reactive`) extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to configure Keycloak programmatically, then consider using https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_development/#admin-rest-api[Keycloak Admin REST API] with the help of the `quarkus-keycloak-admin-client` or `quarkus-keycloak-admin-client-reactive` (if the application uses the `quarkus-rest-client-reactive`) extension.
```

Reviewer: `Keycloak` is an OpenId connect provider we recommend, so the capital `K` has to stay

Author: Thanks for the clarification, Sergey. I have changed this back.

> If you need to configure keycloak programmatically, then consider using https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_development/#admin-rest-api[Keycloak Admin REST API] with the help of the `quarkus-keycloak-admin-client` or `quarkus-keycloak-admin-client-reactive` (if the application uses the `quarkus-rest-client-reactive`) extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to configure Keycloak programmatically, then consider using https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_development/#admin-rest-api[Keycloak Admin REST API] with the help of the `quarkus-keycloak-admin-client` or `quarkus-keycloak-admin-client-reactive` (if the application uses the `quarkus-rest-client-reactive`) extension.
```
